How You Can Participate in NYCWiC
We invite proposals that showcase computing research as well as efforts to increase diversity in computing.

TALKS:
Research Talks: Research Talks at NYCWiC provide an opportunity for presenters to highlight details of their work, including key research findings. Presentations are typically 15-minutes in length and allow presenters time to interact with their audience during a Q&A session. 

First-timer Research Talks: NYCWiC’s “First-Timer” Research Talks are shorter, approximately 5-minute presentations. They are specifically designed for first-time, student presenters at the conference and include the opportunity for student presenters to receive on-the-spot feedback and mentoring of their work. Presentations that highlight preliminary research results and research works-in-progress are especially encouraged in this category.

Diversity Presentations: Diversity Presentations are typically 15-minute, interactive presentation–discussions about diversity in computing. Work that focuses on initiatives to diversify computing and/or associated issues surrounding diversity in the field of computing are most welcome. For example, past Diversity Presentations were focused on (1) identifying and dealing with micro-aggressions, (2) best practices for establishing and ACM-W chapter, and (3) combating imposter syndrome.

POSTERS:
Diversity Posters: Diversity Posters are physical/printed displays (that can have a digital demo component) that illustrate research, projects, initiatives, or other work toward the effort of increasing diversity in the computing field. Preliminary reports on new efforts that have not yet produced measurable results are also welcome in this category.

Research Posters or Demos: Research Posters are physical/printed displays (that can have a digital demo component) that illustrate the details of presenters’ research and findings. Research Posters that focus on completed research or works-in-progress are welcome, as are posters that focus on student class projects. Demos are hands-on, interactive demonstrations of fully-functional or in-development digital technology products or systems. Students are also encouraged to present demos based on class projects. Student presenters are eligible for prizes awarded for the best student research posters or best student demos.

PANEL DISCUSSION:
Panel Discussions are moderator-led sessions where two or more speakers present different aspects, perspectives or thoughts on a particular topic, research problem, or question. The sessions are intended to elicit a lively exchange among the panelists and provide the audience an opportunity to hear various viewpoints on a topic. Panel Discussions typically run for 45 minutes and include time for interactive Q&A with audience members toward the end of the session.

BIRDS-OF-A-FEATHER SESSIONS:
Birds-of-a-Feather (BoF) Sessions are round-table sessions intended to bring together NYCWiC attendees with shared interests. The BoF Sessions are relaxed gatherings, without a fixed agenda, that focus on community building through highly interactive discussions covering a wide variety of current and urgent topics of interest to the NYCWiC audience. When you propose a BoF session you are proposing to lead the session, but the conversation should be driven by attendees.

Submission abstract examples
POSTER:
Gender Portrayal in Film
Ada Lovelace, 2nd Year Graduate Student, Pratt Institute School of Information

The Bechdel Test is an evaluation of how women are represented in a work of fiction, where a piece passes the test under the condition that at least two women (with names) hold a conversation with each other about something other than a man. This data visualization project explores the Bechdel Test as applied to American films, combining data from bechdeltest.com and IMDb to explore the representation of women in film, reception by audiences, and the impact of female directors and producers in the industry.

FIRST TIMER RESEARCH TALK:
Computer Guided ACLS
Anita Borg, Professor of Computer Science, Schenectady Country Community College
Grace Hopper, Undergraduate, Schenectady County Community College

Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) refers to a set of interventions performed by clinicians in response to life-threatening medical emergencies. This program is designed to guide an Emergency Response Team and document the steps outlined in the ACLS algorithm. The program features a GUI interface to maximize interactive usage and prompt users to perform certain steps in accordance with the algorithm. The computer-guided ACLS algorithm serves as a reference for the user, documents the sequence of steps performed, and provides timing for each step. This way, the program can minimize human errors, coordinate events, provide more accurate documentation, increase efficiency, and improve outcomes.

RESEARCH TALK:
Virtual Mindfulness: Using Virtual Reality to Induce a State of Mindfulness
Katherine Johnson, 2nd Year Graduate Student, Pratt Institute School of Information
Jean Bartik, 1st Year Graduate Student, Pratt Institute School of Information
Sister Mary Kenneth Keller, 1st Year Graduate Student, Pratt Institute School of Information

Recently, there has been a growing interest in the applications of mindfulness and use of virtual reality (VR) environments for mindfulness training. The current experiment investigated whether a brief VR-based mindfulness intervention could induce greater levels of state mindfulness, when compared to an audio-based intervention and control group. Results indicated VR-based and audio-based interventions induced greater state of mindfulness compared to the control group. Participants in the VR-based group reported greater state of mindfulness than those in the guided audio group, indicating the immersive mindfulness intervention was more robust. These results provide empirical support for brief VR-based mindfulness intervention in inducing state of mindfulness.

PANEL PRESENTATION:
Test Automation in Practice

Moderator:
Anita Borg, Professor of Computer Science, Schenectady Country Community College

Panelists
Grace Hopper, Undergraduate, Schenectady County Community College
Jean Bartik, 1st Year Graduate Student, Pratt Institute School of Information
Sister Mary Kenneth Keller, 1st Year Graduate Student, Pratt Institute School of Information

Developing and implementing a successful test automation strategy can provide enormous benefit for a software project. However, automating tests is not cheap or easy. It does not replace the need for manual testing or enable to “down-size” the testing group. Automated testing can be made to be cost-effective, if best practices are applied to the process. This panel goal is to discuss techniques that are able to facilitate the adoption of test automation in practice.

BIRDS OF A FEATHER:
What does it mean to be an ally?
Charles Babbage Professor of Computer Science, Dutchess County Community College

In a recent article, Forbes describes being an ally as: “any person that actively promotes and aspires to advance the culture of inclusion through intentional, positive and conscious efforts that benefit people as a whole.” 1 They go on to define allyship as: “a lifelong process of building relationships based on trust, consistency, and accountability with marginalized individuals and/or groups of people.” In this Birds of a Feather session we invite discussion of our experiences being an ally as well as times when having an ally has impacted our life and/or career. We will also encourage discussion of how we might all improve our allyship.

1 https://www.forbes.com/sites/shereeatcheson/2018/11/30/allyship-the-key-to-unlocking-the-power-of-diversity/#f6efb9d49c6f
